# Streamable library

The Streamable library contains a signature for types supporting
incremental serialization. It acts as the "runtime library" for
[`ppx_streamable`](https://github.com/janestreet/streamable/tree/master/ppx/doc),
which may be easier to use than directly invoking the functors exposed
by this library.

This is useful for types that need to be serializable but may be too large to
serialize in a single async cycle.

Signature
=========
The core of the Streamable is the signature of incrementally
serializable types, found in the `Module_type` module.

At a high-level, the signature includes

* a type `t`, that you want to serialize
* a type `part`, which is `bin_io`-able
* a function `t -> part Sequence.t`
* a set of functions/types for incrementally putting together a sequence of
  `part`s back into the original `t`

It is expected that `t`s round-trip through this process; that is, turning a
value into parts and then putting them back together should give an equal value.

More in-depth documentation can be found alongside the type signature
definition.

Functors
========
The goal of the functors are to avoid the need to manually fulfill the
streamable interface. In most cases they should be sufficient. The functors all
fulfill the round-trip identity law, as long as their arguments do the same.

All of the functors are available in `Stable` forms.  A Stable module
is guaranteed to not change over time.  If we ever want to change how
we serialize a particular type, we'll do so by adding a new stable
version so that client code can upgrade on their own time.

Of_atomic
---------
The simplest provided functor is `Of_atomic`, which takes a `bin_io`-able type and
returns the streamable signature on the same type. This is done in the trivial
way, meaning that no benefit is gained in switching from `bin_io` to streamable
if the streamable interface is satisfied with `Of_atomic`.

Of_streamable
-------------
The `Of_streamable` functor takes a streamable type, a non-streamable analagous
type, and conversion functions between the two, and returns a streamable
instance of the latter type.

This is most commonly used to make a record streamable, by going through one of
the `Of_tupleN` functors:

```
type t = {x : int; y : string}

include
  Streamable.Remove_t
    (Streamable.Of_streamable
      (Streamable.Of_tuple2
        (Streamable.Of_atomic (Int))
        (Streamable.Of_atomic (String)))
      (struct
        type nonrec t = t
        let to_streamable {x; y} =
          (* *)           (x, y)
        let of_streamable (x, y) =
          (* *)           {x; y}
      end))
```

Or, similarly, to make a variant streamable by going through one of the
`Of_variantN` functors.

Remove_t
----------
The `Remove_t` functor in the previous example is a helper that just
removes the `type t` from the returned module, since there is already
a `type t` in scope.  It's often useful.

For container types
-------------------
Most of the remaining functors are used to lift one or more streamable types
into a more complex streamable type by applying some type constructor. For
example, a `string list` could be made streamable in the following way:

```
Streamable.Of_list (Streamable.Of_atomic (String))
```

Almost all of the module signatures encountered in these functors are just
`Streamable.S` with various types `t`. The exceptions are the module for the key
type in `Of_map` and the module for the type in `Of_set`. Both of these only
expect the module signature `Stable` (the module for the _key_, not the
corresponding map/set); that is, they must be `bin_io`-able, and will be streamed
atomically. This may not be what you want if values of those types can get too
large to `bin_io` atomically.

Fixpoint
--------
The `Fixpoint` functor can be used to make recursive types streamable. See the
`btree.ml` in the `streamable_examples` library.

Packed
------
The `Packed` functor takes a streamable type and returns the same type, but with
a new implementation of the streamable interface. It attempts to decrease the
number of parts by collecting multiple parts from the original streamable into a
single part until it reaches a size threshold (currently `2^17` bytes).

Many of the functors for container types are already wrapped in `Packed`, so it
is usually unnecessary to use this one outside of the library. This is most
often useful if you are manually implementing the `Streamable` interface but the
most natural way of doing so generates many small parts.
